Okay, so now we have Prometheus fully configured,
but the question is well how do we graph it?
One of the answers to this question the most common one grafana.
So let's go ahead and get grafana set up on our system.
So we're going to first start with downloading
grafana and then getting some dependencies of it and then starting the grafana service.
Running the grafana service and configuring Prometheus to talk to it.
So we download grafana with our control command.
Pretty quick. Now we're installing end user and lib font config.
We start the grafana server and we enable
grafana server so that the next time the system restarts will have grafana still.
So now we're going to punch in our IP address.
3-18-2-2-1-1-16 and we're going
to need to put in the correct IP address and in order to get to grafana.
So you're going to go to a port 3,000 to pull
grafana and I'm going
go ahead and just log in with the standard credentials.
So we're going to put in admin for the first time and admin and click login.
Great. So now we've logged in for the first time and we're able to start configuring
it and we already
have set up a data source here.
So what you're going to want to do is for a new DataSource,
you'll set the name to Prometheus and you'll set
the type to Prometheus and you're also going to set
the IP address and port number that Prometheus is running on and let's go ahead
and make sure going to run this as pseudo.
Okay great.
So let's go ahead and see if we can look at some of the data for Prometheus.
So we just restarted Prometheus here.
It's just going to take a second.
So we see here our first little bits of data here.
Head chunks is just coming in,
query durations but everything else is like the graphs are just starting here.
So there's just the bare minimum of data.
Great. So now we have configured grafana to be able to talk to the Prometheus backend.